Williams seeks to provide the finest possible liberal arts education by
nurturing in students the academic and civic virtues, and their related traits
of character. Academic virtues include the capacities to explore widely and
deeply, think critically, reason empirically, express clearly, and connect
ideas creatively. Civic virtues include commitment to engage both the broad
public realm and community life, and the skills to do so effectively. These
virtues, in turn, have associated traits of character. For example, free
inquiry requires open-mindedness, and commitment to community draws on concern
for others.

We are committed to our central endeavor of academic excellence in a community
of learning that comprises students, faculty, and staff, and draws on the
engagement of alumni and parents. We recruit students from among the most able
in the country and abroad and select them for the academic and personal
attributes they can contribute to the educational enterprise, inside and
outside the classroom. Our faculty is a highly talented group of teachers,
scholars, and artists committed deeply to the education of our students and to
involving them in their efforts to expand human knowledge and understanding
through original research, thought, and artistic expression. Dedicated staff
enable this teaching and learning to take place at the highest possible level,
as do the involvement and support of our extraordinarily loyal parents and
alumni.

No one can pretend to more than guess at what students now entering college
will be called upon to comprehend in the decades ahead. No training in fixed
techniques, no finite knowledge now at hand, no rigid formula can solve
problems whose shape we cannot yet define. The most versatile, the most
durable, in an ultimate sense, the most practical knowledge and intellectual
resources that we can offer students are the openness, creativity,
flexibility, and power of education in the liberal arts.

Toward that end we extend a curriculum that offers wide opportunities for
learning, ensures close attention of faculty to students but also encourages
students to learn independently, and reflects the complexity and diversity of
the world. We seek to do this in an atmosphere that nurtures the simple joy of
learning as a lifelong habit and commitment.

We place great emphasis on the learning that takes place in the creation of a
functioning community: life in the residence halls, expression through the
arts, debates on political issues, leadership in campus governance,
exploration of personal identity, pursuit of spiritual and religious impulses,
the challenge of athletics, and direct engagement with human needs, nearby and
far away.

To serve well our students and the world, Williams embraces core values such
as welcoming and supporting in the College community people from all segments
of our increasingly diverse society and ensuring that College operations are
environmentally sustainable.

From this holistic immersion students learn more than they will ever
know. Such is the testimony of countless graduates - that their Williams
experience has equipped them to live fuller, more effective lives. Ultimately,
the College's greatest mark on the world consists of this: the contributions
our alumni make in their professions, their communities, and their personal
lives.

Therefore, we ask all our students to understand that an education at Williams
should not be regarded as a privilege destined to create further privilege,
but as a privilege that creates opportunities to serve society at large, and
imposes the responsibility to do so.

At the same time, being itself privileged by its history and circumstances,
Williams understands its own responsibility to contribute by thought and
example to the world of higher education.

Approved by the Board of Trustees April 14, 2007
